President andersen members of the faculty board of trustees distinguished guess my old colleague senate the bob bur. Old who has earned his degree through many years of attending night law school while the am earning mine and the next three minutes distinguished guest ladies and gentlemen it is with great pride. But I participate in this ceremony of the american university responded by the Methodist church founded by bishop john fletcher harvest and first opened by president woodro wisdom in the. Between fourteen this is a young and growing university but it has already fulfilled bishop hurt enlightened hope for the study of history in public affairs in a city devoted. To the making of history and to the conduct of the public business by powering this institution of high learning for all who wish to learn whatever their calls or their creed. The methodists of this area and the nation deserve the nation's thanks and I command all those who are to day graduating professor woodrill wisdom once said that every man sent out from a university should. Be a man of his nation as well as a man of his time and I'm confident that the men and women who carry the honour of graduating from this institution who continue to give from their lives. From their talents a high measure of public service and public support there are few earthly things more beautiful than a university written john mayesfield and his tribute to english universe. Cities and his words are equally true to say he did not refer to towers or the campuses he admired the splendid beauty of a university because it was he said a place where those who hate ignorance. May strive to know where those who perceive truth may strive to make other were I have therefore chosen this time in place to discuss a topic on which ignorance too often. Bounds and the truth too rarely perceived and that is the most important topic on earth peace what kind of a piece do I mean and what kind of a piece do we seek not a parks america. And enforced on the world by american weapons of war not the peace of the grave or the security of the slave I am talking about genuine peace the kind of. Peace that makes life on earth worth living they've the kind that enables men and nations to grow and a hope and build a better life for their children not merely peace for americans but peace for all men. In women not merely peace in our time a peace in all time I speak of peace because of the new face of war total war makes no sense in an age where. Great powers can maintain large and relatively invulnerable nuclear forces and refuse to surrender without resort to those forces it makes no sense in an age. Were a single nuclear weapon contains almost ten times the explosive force delivered by all the allied air forces in the second world where it makes no sense in a. The age when the deadly poisons produced by a nuclear exchange would be carried by wind and water and soil and seed to the far corners of the globe and a generations at. Danborn to say the expenditure of billions of dollars every year on weapons acquired for the purpose of making sure we never need them is essential to the keeping of peace but surely the acquas. Piece of such idle stockpiles which can only destroy and never create is not the only much less the most efficient means of assuring peace i speak of. Race therefore as the necessary rational end of rational men I realize the pursuit of peace is not as dramatic as the pursuit of war and frequently the. Words of the pursuers fall on deaf ears but we have no foreign task some say that it is useless to speak of peace or world law on world is movement. And that it will be useless until the leaders of the soviet union adopt a more enlightened attitude I hope they do I believe we can help them do it but I also believe that we must re examine our. Our attitudes as individuals and as a nation for our attitude is as essential as theirs and every graduate of this school every thoughtful citizen who despairs of war. More he wishes to bring peace should begin by looking inward by examining his own attitude towards the possibilities of peace towards the soviet union towards the course of the coup. War and towards freedom and peace here at home first examine our attitude towards peace itself too many of us think it is impossible to many think it is unreal but that is. A dangerous defeated belief it leads to the conclusion that war is inevitable that mankind is doomed that we are gripped by forces we cannot control. We need not accept that view our problems a man made therefore they can be solved by man and man can be as big as he wants no problem of human destiny is beyond a. Human beings man's reason and spirit have often solved the seemingly unbelievable and we believe they can do it again I am not referring to the absolute infinite concept of an. Versus peace and good will of which some fantasies and fanatics dream I do not deny the value of hopes and dreams but we merely invite discouragement an incredulity by making that our. Only an immediate goal let us focus instead on a more practical more attainable peace based not on a sudden revolution in human nature but on a gradual evolution inhuman ice. Institutions on a series of concrete actions and effective agreements which are in the interests of all concerns there is no single simple key to this peace no grand of magic formula. To be adopted by one or two powers genuine peace must be the product of many nations the sum of many acts it must be dynamic not static changing to meet the challenge. Of each new generation for peace is a process a way of solving problems with such a peace there will still be quarrels and conflicting interests as there are within families and name. This world peace like community peace does not require that each man love is neighbour it requires only that they live together in mutual tolerance submitting their disputes to age. Just as peaceful settlement and history teaches us that entries between nations as between individuals do not last forever however fixed our lives and dislikes. S may see the tide of time and advance will often bring surprising changes in the relations between national neighbours so let us persevere peace need not be impractical. And war we need not be inevitable by defining our fall more clearly by making it seem more manageable and less remote we can help all people to see it to draw a hope from it and. To move irresistibly towards it and second let us here examine our attitude towards the soviet union it is discouraging to think that their leaders may actually believe what their propaganda is right. It is discouraging to read a recent authoritative service text on military strategy and find on page after page wholly baseless and incredible claims such as the alleged. Action that american imperialist circles are preparing to unleash different types of war that there is a very real thread of a preventative war being unleashed by american imperialists against the sobiet union and that the political aims and a qua. Of the american imperialists auto as slave economically and politically the European and other capitalist countries and which he would domination by means of aggressive war under. Truly as it was written long ago the wicked flee when no man pursued yet it is sad to read these soviet statements to realize the extent of the gulf between us but it is also a warning. A warning to the american people not to fall into the same trap as the society not to see only a distorted and desperate view of the other side not to see conflict as inevitable a sea. Accommodation is impossible and communication is nothing more than an exchange of threats no government or social system is so evil that its people must be considered as lacking in over. Virtue as americans we find communism profoundly repugnant as a generation of personal freedom and dignity but we can still hail the musical people for their many achievements in science. And space in economic and industrial growth in culture in acts of courage among the many traits the peoples of our two countries have in common none is stronger than our mutual occurrence of war. Almost unique among the major world powers we have never been at war with each other and no nation in the history of battle ever suffered more than the soviet union in the second world war. At least twenty million lost their lives countless millions of homes and families were burned or sacked a third of the nation's territory including two thirds of its industrial base was turned into a way. She land a loss equivalent to the destruction of this country east of chicago to day should total war ever break out again no matter how our two countries will be the primary stage. It is an ironic but accurate fact that the two strongest powers are the two in the most danger of devastation all we have built all we have worked for would be destroyed in the first twenty of. Or ours and even in the cold war which brings burdens and dangers to so many countries including the nations closest allies or the countries bear the heaviest burdens for we are to. Both devoting must give sums of money to weapons that could be better devoted to combat ignorance poverty and disease we are both caught up in a vicious and dangerous cycle. With suspicion on one side breeding suspicion on the other and new weapons begetting counter weapons in short both the united states and its allies and the soviet union and its allies. A mutually deep interest in a just and genuine peace and in holding the arm's race agreements to this end are in the interests of the soviet union as well as ours and even the. Our hostile nations can be relied upon to accept and keysthose treaty obligations and only those treaty obligations which are in their own interest so let us not be blind to our differences. But let us also direct attention to our common interests and the means by which those differences can be resolved and if we cannot end now our differences at least we can help make the world safe. Diversity for in the final analysis our most basic common link were that we all inhabit this small planet we all breathe the same as we all cherish our children's few. Us and we are all mortal third let us to examine our attitude towards the cold war remembering were not engaged in a debate seeking to pile up debating points we are not here distributing. Lay appointing the finger of judgment we must deal with a world as it is and not as it might have been that the history of the last eight years been different we must therefore persevere in the search for peace. In the hope that constructive changes within the communist bloc might bring within rich solutions which now seem beyond us we must conduct our affairs in such a way that it becomes in the communists. Interest to agree on a genuine peace and above all while defending our own vital interest pupil powers must avert those frustrations which bring an advantage. Army to a choice of either a humiliating retreat or a nuclear war to adopt that kind of cause in the nuclear age would be evidence only of the bankruptcy of our policy. Or of a collective death wish of the world to secure these ends america's weapons are non provocative carefully controlled design to deter and capable of select. To use our military forces are committed to peace and disciplined in self restraint our diplomats are instructed to avoid our necessary irritance and purely rhetorical hostility. For we can seek a relaxation of tensions without relaxing our good and for our part we do not need to use threats to prove we are resolute we do not need to jam foreign broadcasts. Out of fear our faith will be eroded we are unwilling to impose our system on any unwilling people but we are willing and able to engage in peaceful competition with any people on earth. Meanwhile we seek to strengthen the united nations to help solve its financial problems to make it a more effective instrument for peace to develop it into a genuine world security system a system capable of. Resolving disputes on the basis of law of insuring the security of the lodge and the slow end of creating conditions under which arms can finally be abolished at the same time we seek to keep peace. Inside the noncommunist world where many nations all of them are friends are divided over issues which week on western unity which invite communism in a convention or which threaten to erupt. To war our efforts in western guinea in the condo in the middle east and the Indian subcontinent have been persistent and patient despite criticism from both sides we have also tried to. Set an example for others by seeking to have just small but significant differences with our own closest neighbours in Mexico and camera speaking of other nations I wish to make one point clear. We are bound to many nations by alliances these alliances exist because our concern and their substantially overlap our commitment to defend west in europe and westburland for example stands undimin. Used because of the identity of our vital interest the united states will make no deal with the soviet union at the expense of other nations and other peoples not merely because they are our partners but also. Because their interest and ours converge our inconpress converge however not only in defending the frontiers of freedom but in pursuing the paths of peace it is our hope and the purpose of all. Wide policy to convince the soviet union that she too should let each nation choose its own future so long as that choice does not interfere with the choices of others. Communist drive to impose their political and economic system on others is the primary cause of world tension to say for there can be no doubt that if all nations could refrain. Interfering in the self determination of others the peace would be much more assured this will require a new effort to achieve world law a new context for world discussions it will require. Credit understanding between the society and ourselves and increased understanding will require increased contact and communication one step in this direction is the proposed arrangement for a direct line. Between moscow and Washington to avoid on each side the dangerous delays misunderstandings and misunderstandings of other actions which might occur at a time of crisis we have all as. Of been talking in general about our first step measures of armed controls designed to limit the intensity of the arms race and reduce the risk of accidental war our primary long range interest in general. However is general and complete disomoment design to take place by stages permitting parallel political developments to build the new institutions of peace which would take the place of arms the purse. Us of this opponent has been an effort of this government since the nineteen twenties it has been urgently sought by the past three administrations and however dim the prospects are to say we intend to continue. Of this effort to continue it in order that all countries including our own can better grasp what the problems and the possibilities of disarmament are the only major area of. These negotiations where the end is in sight yet where afresh tide is badly needed is in a treaty to outlaw casualties the conclusion of such a treaty so near and yet so far. Would check the spiraling arms race in one of its most dangerous areas it would place the nuclear powers in a position to deal more effectively with one of the greatest hazards which many faces in nineteen sixty three. The further spread of nucleerarms it would increase our security it would decrease the prospects of our surely this goal is sufficiently important to require our steady pursuit. Yielding neither to the temptation to give up the whole effort nor the temptation to give up our insistence on vital and responsible safeguards I am taking this opportunity therefore to announce too important decisions. On in this regard force chairman krushar prime minister may melon and I have agreed that high level discussions will shortly begin in Moscow looking towards early agreement on a comprehensive. Best band treaty our hope must be tempered our hopes must be tempered with the caution of history. But with our hopes go the hopes of all mankind second to make clear our good faith and solemn convictions on this matter I now declare that the united states does not propose to conduct. Neuclyatest in the atmosphere so long as other states do not do so we will not use. Will not be the first to resume such a declaration is no substitute for a formal binding treaty but I hope it will help us achieve one nor would such a treaty be a substitute for disappointment. But I hope it will help us achieve it finally my fellow americans let us examine our attitude towards peace and freedom here at home the quality and spirit of our own society must justify and support our. If it's abroad we must show it in the dedication of our own lives as many of you who are graduating to day will have an opportunity to do by serving without pay in the peace core abroad or in the proposed. National service care here at home but wherever we are we must all in our daily lives live up to the age old faith that peace and freedom walk together in too many. Why of our cities to say the peace is not secure because freedom is incomplete it is the responsibility of the executive branch at all levels of government local state and nation to provide. Protect that freedom for all of our citizens by all means within our authority it is the responsibility of the legislative branch at all levels wherever the authority is not now a. Equate to make it adequate and it is the responsibility of all citizens in all sections of this country to respect the rights of others and respect the law of the land all their. All this is not unrelated to world peace when a man's way please the lord the scriptures tell us. He makes even his enemies to be at peace with him and is not peace in the last analysis basically a matter of human rights the right to live out our lives without fear of devastation. The right to breathe fire as nature provided it the right of future generations to a healthy existence while we proceed to save good our national interest let us also save good. Human interest and the elimination of war and arms is clearly in the interest of both no treaty however much it may be to the advantage of all however tightly it may be worded can. Provide absolute security against the risks of deception and evasion but it can if it is sufficiently effective in its enforcement and it is sufficiently in the interest of its s. Enters of a far more security and far fewer risks than an unabated uncontrolled unpredictable arm's race the united states as the world knows. Will never start a war we do not want a war we do not not expect a war this generation of americans has already had enough more than enough of war and hate and. Oppression we shall be prepared if others wish it we shall be alert to try to stop and. But we shall also do our part to build a world of peace where the weak are safe and the strong are just we are not helpless before that task or hopeless of its. Less confident and unafraid we must labour on not towards a strategy of annihilation but towards a strategy of peace