The filthy filter that is obtained by mapping the butterworth filter to a digital filter through the biolineal transformation in fact falls off in frequency. Much more rapidly than the one that we got through impulse and variance a question is why no one thought that might come to mind as well impulse and variance as aliasing the biolinear transform. It doesn't have aliasing that must be a consequence of aliasing in fact that's not the reason aliasing as it turns out in this particular design is he was relatively minimal in the impulse and variant design. The reason has to do with this non linear mapping in the bilinear transformation from the continuous time frequency to the discreet time frequency keeps in mind that. Through that mapping as you start walking around the unit circle and moving up the jeomega axis as you move up the jeomega axis you have to move faster and faster and faster and faster and what's in. This time frequency and infinity is what you get to in the discreet time frequency by the time you get around to do so in fact what we're looking at is as as we look out along this. Currency axis is we're seeing higher and higher and higher frequencies in the continuous time filter by the time we get to go we should in fact be in the continuous. Time filter equivalently off to infinity which sounds like a pretty uncomfortable place to be to k now this was a fairly rapid trip. To a number of issues in particular some of the issues associated with the biological transformation and also this issue of how you pick this permanent capital it and how it might be. Met with a sampling frequency if you're doing discreet time processing of continuous time signals and we don't have time to explore some of those issues more fully in this lecture but I'd like. Conclude by making a couple of comments one comment is that the two techniques that we've talked about impulse and variance and the biolinear transformation are the two techniques that are principally used. And one thinks of mapping continuous time filters to discreet time filters for whatever application and the stress again that you may want to do that mapping whether or not the discreet time filter. Is eventually going to be used for processing continuous time signals now impulse and variance had the characteristic that it very nice characteristic that that. Corresponds to a linear mapping between the two frequency axes except for the issue of aliasing and that's a problem with it and in particular limits its usefulness to filter. Signs or for mapping continuous time filters that are banned limited on the other hand we have the bilinear transformation as a design procedure which totally avoids allowing. But has the disadvantage or difficulty that it represents a non linear mapping from the continuous time filter to the discreet time filter now this non linear distortion is perfectly accepted. Able if we're designing or attempting to design filters that have flat frequency characteristics it's not acceptable if for example we had a linear frequency characteristic that we wanted to map to a discreet time. Tear and end up with a linear frequency characteristic it won't come out to be linear because of this non linear mapping of the frequency axes now there are also a number of other design. Procedures which we won't go into for designing discreet time filters and among them are a variety of techniques including for example computerised designed procedures and I invite you. If you're interested and want to dig into that in more detail and more deeply to explore that topic by making reference to various of the books listed in the bibliography. In the text thank you