Oh ya i'm sorry and now make my best day to say you what what did i do i or I must be drunk to say. Thank you very much any more mistake to a fortunately not right or very good is so so a let me to this again so now I can modify. Wave equation right originally the wave equation is part square side part the square equal to v square parts square side par x square and now it add additional turn with safe the. Proportional to the as a plate square page to the four side part x to the fort so if I had this turn into again and now the drag in the wafy question the progressing waves. Solution into the second equation then I will get this formula do so now everything should be correct and I have clear evidence that everybody is following so that is very good and then. I can now cancel all the minor signs in then this become press and now I can a o calculus we be the the spedofa propagation for this specific harmonic processing wave and the. Make you k will be equal to v square to one pros all k square i thank you very much for the contribution and now we see that clearly this ratio depends on k. I see if I pray this month of the previous cup which I stay optainte franc from here or then what I am going to get is something like this. The beginning is very close to the non disservice case and then it goes up because because of this contribution of it a positive number in my mymado. And the key essatalbe at time at the weight number or so what is going to happen is that nasty after you increase the steepness the slope of this curve is caught. Did as a functional kit or a what will I learn from this exercise is that if I inquise kick or if I have a very large key. Ok that means I have a very small land because it as so be too pie over land or so that means ain't looking at something really really still distorted like this. Or bosring tension and the stiffness wants to restore or restore the string back to name therefore what is happening is that. Are going to get additional restored in force therefore as well as only and calculate here if age is also positive then the velocity so. Creased with respect to what would be over or what we have to get before we we actually add this into the mat or so I think that'll make sense right because the stiffness also wants to restore them. The distortion therefore you have larger and larger at a restoring force therefore the speed of proportion of this harmonic wave will increase or so that's pretty nice. But what does that mean to our project back our project is to send information from one place to the other place right so what we just discuss be is that. We can as we send a square house and a large prop of a square pause can be decomposed into many many pieces many many harmonic waves or before. The square post works because all the waves with different wave lands and pokea up a pogea astheo moving at this constant speed is independent of thewave. Less now we are in trouble as you can see here that now the speed which is omegabag depends on the wave number or wavelets the. For different components which lady are needed to create a square house are going to be propagating at different speed you can say or come on this is a mathematics why I don't believe. And you know a square post is for square pause and tax mathematics has mans department but we can really see that in the experiment to it so that's take a look at this demonstration maybe. Didn't notice that before but we have seen this effect from her previous lectures a case of it can now quit as a square not not really square pass but as of some kind of pounds I can quit a. Some kind of pows like this ok and me as we learned before it when these pows pass through as open and it's going to be bounced aback so therefore I can have a limit of I can that. Show you this damn in a dimity to be set up at this house is going to be going back and forth because I have opened and ok as we discussed before or what is going to happen is that since we have a reality. Realistic assistance what is going to happen is that this post will become wider and wider right that's the prediction coming from a thisequation different component with. Any wave lands is going to be propagating at different speed therefore this house is going to become wider and we can see that our so damn quickly produce a pause and see what will happen to be. Originally essentially really sharp and you can see that really these of the posts become wider and wider and at the same point it disappear or if I have a beer. Seat what you are going to see is that it's going to be propagating a toward the same decision and the whiz of the pews usually going to be increasing as a functional time dusyou take a look. This again now this time you have a negative powers you sort of see very similar thing and also you can see that there sounds strange vibration as show did lag behind that the man pops it. That means different to do harmonic ways with different it lands really we prove propagating at different speed and for that to the. Strategy this effect is also prepared some demonstrations which waste her a passed on your calculation or so you can say that or now i am convinced if i can see me. Dispersion in the experiment how do I know this calculation is to match with experimental data right how about we really are put a wrong assimilation and see what happens or so what this are what. Is expand how to do is in the other beginning of you would do immigration like crazy or in order to get all the components due calculated land is going to propagate all those parts. Although stiff apposite to his different component through the medium so and that there would be two different colors one essentially blue which is the original shape the other one is actually the one this steeple. Is turned out or so now in the beginning it can set the safe value to a point or two and see what will happen and it will produce a triangular pause or you can see that now the program. Really working very hard to calculate all components of from one to one ninety nine and equal to one ninety nine and now this individual components are propagating through. The medium and you can see that originally the shape is like as a label as a shape a triangular shape and you can see that is a functional time the pals become wider and wider. Now of course I can increase the age two point or two and see what a happen front or to two point to and see what happen you should expect a much larger dispersion and you can. See that now in the beginning thing the immigration and you can see that this time because it wife says you larger therefore you see that this effect sees this broadeningis. Happening earlier and that become broader and broader and that they are a lot of stranger structures as you can see also from the teams are produced because different components are as source propagated at different speed. Of so of course we are on it so in this course we have an it as it waves right so let's take a look at the bit wave and see what I happen now you see that led. Very sharp to which I should require really a lot of effort to reproduce that and you can see that and in its kind of distorted as a bunk in line you can kind of still identify the peak. Butsasoulde not distressed and in the end of the simulation you cannot see even recognize that to the origin of that signal which you sent from your source of. So what I want to say is that and this effect this dispersion if that is really enemy which is usually very dangerous and now the is will prevent us from. Scenting a high quality signals eh of any questions about olostemos. And do so this because of a a the steepness a you ssetia symetric it or if you if you open this thing if you pende the string then share. Soon from the positive and negative part of if you have a ten to the if you have a part to the three part to the x to the three components then this is going to be a symetric and suggestion against your physics intuition and also. In the inside matoding you also match with your experimental data pretty well very good question and on the other hand without considering the stiepness of you can also go back to the. Infinite number coupled isolated case if you instead a take an example which you say so not super small the displacement of pocimation you take the. Until next time to taking your turn then you see that the partial to the three pass your ax to the three turn as you can so because is symmetric so I argued and that you will be able to also obtain this turn. When you have slightly larger a displaisement with respect to the equilibrium position to k so I hope they'll answer your question any other question yes. Otapo when you pass through the medium and monacas you change the speed of a a different a wit lunch. She temperately the very good question to is so very good that when we got two questions and we can see that if I now turn on the age make the if about you large then you can see that. Information is distorted on and this involves infinite number of country of terms and that in this case in this new time which I show here I have half value equal to point to therefore the. Effect of a disperse and his dispersion it should be much larger than what you showed before and then you can see that is another wave quickdip you come to something like a cousin like wave of o k so very. Good so a so you can say you be as you are making an example which I o m maybe its slavery interesting example but you involve too many turns you have infinite number of. Progressing waves in in this example of it's very difficult to understand how about we go back to a much simpler example to see what well we can do. Is that instead of you know going through infinite number of harmonic waves now we just consider two waves and to overlap these two waves together and see. Happen ok and I see what we can learn from it because the the ear you know that required number of a haminka was to describe such poses to complicate so you can say that you is now. Lets just consider two waves and see what we can learn from this and this is exactly what I am going to do now so from poll's lecture I hope he covered the pit phenomena supposedly what is it even phenomena. Bit phenomena happens when you overlap two air waves two harmonic waves they have pretty close her her her wave lands on but don another set of. And now if you add two waves together that's at what you are going to get you are going to get a something which is isolating really really fast which you say she called a carrier on and also you can. That the magnitude of the installation is certainly changing as the function of position and that we call it envelope or so that issue tepet phenomena which we learn from period lectures soon. Example I am going to add a two waves together so the first wave as described by soka is center by six one. The functiono x and d and he has the function of form as is the most and the sign of one x minus omega to omaca on the hook to. A progressing wave propagating toward the right hand side of the board the positive direction of the x axis in my coordinate system and he has a wave number no one and the age. Quency is make out what ok and I can also write down my second wave which I would like to overlap with the first wave it so disability having exactly the same ampit which is have and it. Described by a silent function and you have a white number a two x minus omega to the age frequency omica to work with this. Two equations we can calculate at the speed of provocation for the individual waves right so the first one I can calculate the speed of propagation in one will be equal to omega one. Everyone very similarly you can also calculate the speed of propagation for the second wave which homage to over two or so now what I am going to do is to. What the son of these two waves is I have the total of wind o as i sq to see one as six or so what I am going to do is to overlap these two waves and see what happens. For that I need this formula which is a sign a plus sign b and this will be equal to two times sign a press public. Of two and sign become cossign here cousin a minus public two or so if I used that formullero. Pasily what I am going to get is we have two times for a formula so we have to a ok sign one point two. X minus omega one plus omega to two supposedly the first turn is the machine function the second function and the content. A problem therefore you add these two together right divided by two thenbesidy this is star you as ten of the second turn is a consign turn you get a consign here. But now you calculate a minus b which is this this term minus often divided by two then bet e it what you get is a one minus a two divided by two minus x minus or make. One man coming at two or two or so that to say you see what would happen if you add these two a waves together or. Until now everything is exact and I would like to add additional conditions or additional assumptions when I discuss this solution or so how about. In order to produce the bit phenomena I need to make the