Carries this in this in the structure essentially moving forward but the envelope essentially not moving. So finally the last situation is really interesting to time in this situation this essential is a heavy lacubelocity and. The group velocity is actually having different signs compared to the face velocity so you can see that that the whole structure of the envelope is constantly moving backward but that theater. Especially moving in the positive direction in this example or so this especially what we have learned from the fromtis. Bit phenomena and we have covered up the idea of face velocity and the group velocity is how about found system how do we understand when we have abounded system. How does that involve evolve as a functional time so if I have a system of two walls and the one string and of course I give you the density for deiny lands and. The tent strong tension and also the afa which is as we tell you about the steepness of the sister or again I can write down site to be. Song of order no more go from one to infinity a m sin k m x pas afm sin. Want apart and then what we can do is that we can first get the initial conditions of this system and. On the boundary conditions of this system then we must just follow exactly the same procedure to obtain all the unknown coefficients that we'll be able to evolve this system as a functional time as I have demonstrated you in the beginning. Lecture so in this case you can have two boundary conditions one really at x equal to zero and the other one is are at a equal to l o in those boundaries. We as he learned before because the end points are fixed on the wall therefore so often at the at the time it will be always. Equal to zero for the land is a pondary condition and the very similarity as we discussed before so l it will be equal to zero if you look at the right side of the wall. Of the sister so so I don't want to repeat this because this is not exactly the same calculation which we have done before right so with this second its two pondary conditions we can get conclude that. It will be equal to the pie over l and then that it will be equal to zero or so you can issue go back and the check this. A result so what I want to say is that until now what we have been doing is identical to what we have been doing for the non depressed medium of of what I'm to say is that the. But the name mo is ateset by the boundary condition is determined by the boundary condition and it has actually so far nothing to do with the the disorders. Relation to maga is a function or so so in short boundary condition can give you the shape of thenormal note and we know that the first normal to second normal to get cetera et cetera. Essentially as going to be identical to the case of non dispersive medium to k so that as be the first thing which we learn the second thing we learn is they o is now. What we see is that once the boundary condition is given then the in is set to be also given therefore since I have the dispersion relation omega as a functional key. Asjon the right omega is equal to omega books equal to two times squared to the one pros of square right therefore hence k n is given omega. Is also given so you can see that that's as so were the dispersion relation coming to pray the omega.. Bit different if you compare the disservice case and not dispersive case or so that is a to be over what I want to say the k in which is the shape of the normal mole doesn't depend. On the dispersion relation on the other hand the speed of the installation the angurar frequency of mega depends on the dispersian relations which especially while we obtained it from. If I start to protect omega and as the function of. So in the case of non dispersal medium so what I am going to get is I shoulder discreet point along a straight line of tissue k one. Tofour etcetera there is sure there should be all sitting on a common straight line or if you do get look too. Time as a difference between a one k two and k three they are constant according to this formula the difference between k y and k two is pie over two or two and a three also over two. Girl is always a fixed number and the song omega essentially proportional to be therefore the spacing between omega one omega two omega. There is also constant or in short omega to omica tree and omega for et veteran is always a multiple times of vae. Get from omaka one right according to a dise quarter and in the case of none dispersal medium or so what does that mean no means to go now if I have. A very complicated initial condition of this really what I have an initial condition very complicated or I just need to wait if this is ensure no dispersive me. That I just have to wait until the equal to two pay one omega one then this system would restored to its original shape to case a day to what I can learn from here. Because you make out two or make out three and any higher other as no more modes the angry frequency say the multiple times of what I get from or make out one on k. On the other hand if I consider the situation of thispersive medium or you can see that now now the difference between. On mega n is now the constant or so while you were prodigious that it would take much much longer for this system to go back to the original shape compared to her her. No dispersal medium of case or not is whether you can as you see in in real life a experiment i can distort this is this equipment in this bounds as a system and is. Going to take forever any impossible to come back to the original shape because of the dispersiono on the other hand if I have it really highly idolized the situation if I have boys and bound and I just have. Wait until the equal to two of over or make it one then this system will go back to the original shape before I end the the lecture to day a. I would like to discuss with you to interesting issue so many of you have seen water waves eh and firmant as you told us in. Lecture that water waves are they are really easily seen by everybody but it says some the worst possible example that's the bad news the worst possible example because it has all the possible. Here that waves can have that's the bad news the good news is that you are going to do that in your place so we were able to understand the behaviour of the water wavessaid. The good news the second thing which I would like to talk about is face velocity or you can see that this or you can say to if you say that face velocity or harmonica waves beyond. Information right and on to how do I and so know that right so what does that mean to k so let's take this horrible example of what wave of us sotele the black line is as e. Beach and you there's a water wave on the ocean approaching the beach and you can see that you can have some kind of angle between the incertant water wave and the line of the beach of. And what I can easily do is that I can now measure the shape of water water wave at at the edge of beach and the very. See that is now the surface velocity which I observe there essentially faster than the speed of a propagation of the waterway because of this this. Inside the angle or I can easily make it very very fast I can make this speed ishab even faster than the speed of light right. I can I can I can now decrease the the site to zero then you have you have a face velocity which is faster than the speed of light it go to infinity. But does that mean anything is that doesnt mean anything because that don't really move with water from a specific point to another point infinitely fast. Therefore what I want to say is that or you can do whatever you want to make a fancy face velocity but that will not help you with sending things close to the speed of light or greater speed of. Or so as you can see from the example I can easily construct a simple example which you see that is that he is really not sending anything from one press to the other but you still have a readily fast of. I like thank you very much everybody for the attention and the whole you enjoy that lecture and if you have any questions a estimate