The following content is provided under a creative common license your support will help be ensuring the open course was continue to offer high quality educational resources for free to make a donation or to view additional materials from hundreds of the and. Courses visit the ensuring the open course are at o see w dot up i t dot e d u hallo everybody we'll come back to a on three and to day we are going to continue discussion of waves and. We would discuss a very interesting phenomenon to say which is dispersion and before dark we would discuss a bit just to give you some reminder about what we have learned so far so we discovered this equation. Which is shown here in the class and we also show you that it described three different kinds of distance which we included in the lecture the massive strings which the stringo camera. The assilate up and down in the right direction and also we discussed about sun waves me this is also discussed inaperious lecture and the sound waves can be described by. Wavy question and finally last time with this to her eleto magnetic waves is special kind of waves involving two oscellating for one essentially the electric for the other. Is magnetic is so that's kind of interesting because this is at slightly different from what we discussed before in the previous two cases this essentially a three dimensional a wave and also involving two. Different components and we also discuss the the solution the travelling wave solution of the electromagnetic waves as you you can see from here the electric fire is shown as the rat and the magnetic of. Joined the true and you can see that in case of travelling have they are in fact and that the magnetude reach maximum simultaneously for the electric electric fire and the magnetic fire and while in the case of standing waves. There's a face difference right so they don't reach maxima simultaneously in understanding electromagneti cases or so what are we going to discuss to say we would like to discuss. Strategy to send information are using waves or how do we as you send information are using waves so you can say to t you just do maybe I can just send the harmonic. Oscillation rise occupy to this harmonic installation I can well produce harmonical waves if they moving up and down and the espetilte with a constant. Great momentum and again a frequency and then maybe that's a way to send the information but but this kind of a wave is not in reality not superhealful because if you. The whole space with harmonic waves that you don't know when did you actually send the signal right because it's always asolating up and down so you don't know the starting kind of the signal is so so in reality this. Of simple harmonic oscilating troubling wave is not super helpful so what is it to helpful that's the question so what is actually helpful is to produce square pounds for example that is. Create square pews for example in this in this case I can create a square post here and in the next time interval I don't create square pews in the next time interval I don't do anything and I create another square plows. Yet veteran etcetera if you use this kind of strategy what we can do is to have some kind of receiver here to actually measure the magnitude of the. Magnitude of the powers of and then we can natural interpret this data so so this or this this wave is going to wear the positive x direction or going to the right hand side of the board and the receiver will be able to interpret. Of his data by pressing is racial under energy or under matrde output then I can can say oh now I'd receive a zero and in the next a signal and receiving is one and this one is zero. Zero and one and zero in this way I can use the scent information and it this information can be bariting as a functional tap so in short what will be useful is probably to use a narrow. Square is and now we be very helpful in transmitting on information or so and if we consider an ideal strong case or if I have. Deal string as we learned before as the behavior of this string is described by a a top wave equation and passes square. Pato the square and this is equal to be square part square six part the square ok and the this v is actually related to the that the speed of the progressing way. As we discuss before the progressing have solution on and that if i have this idealized string and obey the wave equation the simple version of wave equation then it will be able. To derive the dispersion relation right so I can now write down my harmonic aspoasing wave in the form of sign k x minus omega it if I have a harmonic escalating wave. Acting toward the positive ex direction at speed of v I can write it down in this functional form where k as a reminder is the wave number and the omega is a described. However the anger frequency and therefore if i parking this solution and of course I can have arbitrary ampitu if i parking this solution to this question then what is. Come to get as we said in the last few lectures there will be a fixed relation between a which is really a number and omega the anga frequency so the fixed relation is said to the omega. Over it will be equal to v which is actually the velocity in this wave equation and that from the previous discussion we know this set equal to a square dose of the one row. Little where it is great attention the constant tension which we apply on the string and the roll is essentially the masper one lends us a reminder of so what does this. What does this equation mean we call it this person relation as a time right but we actually didn't explain why do I do that right so we are going to learn why this is as you call this person relation or make out as. No k and in this case in this very simple fight idealize the case omega over it this ratio to k we know this is related to the propagation of. Speedablhe propagation of the harmonical wave or is equal to v be is a constant is independent of why this ratio is independent of k what does that mean that means. If I prepare waves or with different wave number or in the other words waves with different wave lands they are going to propargate at the. Speed right to the speed of the harmonic progressing wave is its independent of the waveletsok that says no very. Because in this case if I prepare the square house as we learned before the square pause essential to her a very complicated object the square pause is really very complicated you can do. Media decomposition as we did before and we knit infinite number of turns of harmonic oscillating waves with which we add them together so that I can produce a square. On and as I mention here if the dispersion relation is omeca of k is a consent era constantly that means all the whatever. Of wave lands pows which I should be added together and produce the square pews are going to be troubling at the same speed therefore as if I have this square. Rose in the beginning after some time to what I am going to get is that age this is the original position of the square pows and after some time at this square pow. Were moved by the tent in the horizontal direction and the shape of the pews is not going to be changed as picks no matter what kind of wave lands which produce the square plows. All the components in the square post are propagating at the same a speed be so this kind of system this kind of a system which as you am satisfied at this. Of a lies a dispersion relation is called on dispersive media right no dispersion was happening in this in this case in this highly idealized case of. We also know that in case of the string we are actually making it too idealized right so if we consider a more realistic string then. I have to consider an important phenomena which is or say important property of the string for example steepness is what do I mean by steepness foremp. If I can if I take a string from the piano a piano string or even if I don't apply any attention to the string if I bend this string you don't like it. It's going to bounce back and restore to its original shape right so that is what I call steepness it's a different contribution compared to the strong tension it is what we have been discs. Using so far that this resorting force essentially coming from the strong tension is or what will happen if it introduce additional a contribution from. Steepness of this steepness essentially not completely related to the strong tension and he also wants to restore the shape of the string or before we go to the matoding. I would like to take some vote to predict what is going to happen how many of you will predict that if I introduce include the stiffness of the string or get into my equation where. Speed of propagation increases how many of you think what is going to happen one to three for five so so some of you. Predict the speed of propagation were increased how many of you predict that the speed of propagation of the harmonic wave will stay the sand how many of you won. Of only one of how many of you have would predict that the speed of propagation would decrease. Or to all the other students don't have opinion or what to wait for the answer. All right so you can see that it is as younger completely obvious before we solve this question and we are going to solve it with a simple motto which we should slightly modify. To as the idealize case we idolize the wavy question or so now one semi realistic motor which I can introduce is to add a turn addition. Turn to the wafy question so I can now to write my wayquestion to include isifi defects to describe a realistic string and now different pato squarsa potatoes. Square this will be equal to be square part square six pattsquare and the additional term which I have put into this fan is minus as platform. Is parties x to four and this essentially the contribution which from the stipnesstifness of. So you can see that the the way question is now modified and what I could do in order to get the relation between omega and the key what I could do is that I can now start. With this a harmonic wave solution a public oquasing wave solution practices that into this equation this modify the equation and see what will happen or if the practice equation. Into that modified wavy question what I am going to get is the bowing capacity the laughing sigh you are going to get or make a square o k minus make a square and the the right hand side. Get a square minus a square anpras away k to the four in the right hand side or so of course I can. Cansel this a minus sign this will become press and this will become minus and we can see that the relation between omega and the k is now different or after it introduce. This term which is proportional to a life century describing how stiff this strain is ok of course now I can calculate or make it of k. As toll as we actually learned before right is the speed of the propagation of a harmonic as a harmonic wave of supasily if I calculate or make a rough find is. Then pasite while you get to v square due of one bus age square to k so if you look at this equation or the first reaction is. Know this omega and kraco is not a constant any more as a function to k what does that mean that means if is. Of progressing waves with different wave length or wave number kick it's going to be propagating at different speed or before we introduced. Ing into the armand into the motto the ratio omaca an k is a constant v independent of it now once you introduce this modo into the equation. And you begin thus a progressing wave solution to asecheck the dispersion relationship obtained from this equation you find that the progressing have be speedo. Gressing wave depends on how distorted this progressing wave is ok to let me compare this two situations. In this grade omega versus or so you see this dispersion relation grab pretty often in the in the past to say the y is i certainly the omega angular. Currency and the k is the weight number two pie one london in the original case in the case I have this idealized string obeyed. The valuation which I w introduce in the previous lectures if I protest to make out as a function k what I am getting is a straight line of a question. And not this the right of maybe I had made some mistake here. You should be as you should be also pros here right is so you have this omen so this to makasquar. And as us have this minus it here I sight so this should be minus and this should be on k let's go back to the original equation or so basically you. So if I probing this question to this equation right so besily I get minus a make square out of it and I get minus a square out of this and I'm going to get a pressure to the. Or out of this part square to the four side party x for eh or therefore this should be minus or maybe i made a miste think thank you much for for sporting that. A introduce is