N isn't an interior and in the class of butterworth filters to generate a rational transfer function capital on this barometer must be an interior so since it can't be five point right eight. The natural thing to do is to move it up to the next closest integer namely six and that means that it will end up with a filter that does even better than the specifications on the other. And there's something kind of underneath the surface that is inherent in the impulse and variant design procedure namely the fact that there will always be some aliasing so one strategy and a natural. Often in impulse and variant design is to choose on as the next highest intrigue as I've done and then choose the perimeter omegus of see so that. Pass band specifications are exactly met and the stop band specifications are then slightly exceeded and that will leave some margin for aliusing right now continuing this. Example then how would we complete the design well we know what our two parameters capital on and omegus of see are. That means that we can determine be of s times by of minus as those poles are located on a circle in the complex s plane and the poles on that circle are paired. Some being associated with public of s and some will public of minus s and in particular to determine be of us we would simply take the poles on the portion of the circle that. In the left half of the explain now what that gives us is a butterworth continuous time filter which we are then map. Ing through impulse and variance with capital is equal to one to a discreet time filter that discreet time filter to be used in a system which has an associated sampling frequency. Which is ten killehurts so to get the discreet time filter that we first determined be of s as we just did or at least I indicated how to do it we would. Then expand that out in a partial fraction expansion and then apply the impulse and variant procedure which consists of mapping the poles in the plane to poles. He said plans at locations me to the s of a capital at any capital it is equal to one and retaining the residue of the coefficient in the expansion and this then will give us the transfer function. Before the discreet time filter so if in fact we did that then the resulting frequency response that we would get is what I've. Tied here and I indicated first on a magnitude scale linear magnitude scale and second on a logarithmic scale and as we had originally specified the. A filter is supposed to be greater than equal to minus one d public at point two pay and less than equal to minus fifteen d public at point three pi and in fact. This slightly exceeds those specifications since we had purposely allowed some margin in the stoppan now this is. Illustration of the impulse and variant procedure and it has a number of very nice properties one of which is that it takes a continuous time filter frequency response and it converts it to. A discreet time frequency response which in the absence of aliasing looks identical except for a linear frequency scale change and in fact if we pick capital is equal to one then there is no scale change it has the major disadvantage. That there is always aliasing and for some design for some problems for example if the filter that we're trying to design is not ban limited or lowpas than the aliesing. Will naturally become intolerable well there's another designed procedure which I now want to introduce which totally avoids the problems of raising but obviously then has its own cost associated. And that procedure is referred to as the bilinear transformation the bilinear transformation which I won't try to derive here in any degree. Is a mapping of continuous time filters to discreet time filters corresponding to taking the replace transform variable as in the continuous time felt. And replacing it by what is referred to as a bilinear function of see and so if I substitute this in here that will give me the discreet time frequency. Once again in this procedure there is a parometer capital at which again is totally irrelevant given the approach that we're taking and which we will generally tend to normalize out to unity and let me just say quick. And in passing that although we won't go through this the notion of the biolinear transformation can be tied to the concept of taking the differential equation for. Continuous time filter converting it to an integral equation by integrating enough times on both sides and then converting that to a different equation by a. Making the integrals with the trapizoidal rule and that in effect will correspond to mapping the continuous time filter to a discreet time filter with the biblical transformation well we'll just. S on the properties of the mapping and in particular if we were to substitute into the expression and equal to set of the gomega corresponding to the unit circle. We would find that the unit circle in discreet time corresponds to mapping the omega axis in continuous time which is exactly what we want. Now the mapping between the continuous time frequency and the discreet time frequency is a non linear mapping which is given by the algebraic expression that I indicate. Are and if we plot this mapping what we have is this curve and what this corresponds to then is. A mapping of the omega axis or continuous time frequency to discreet time frequency and if we think more generally of the mapping represented by the billionaire transform. On in the context of the a plane and the sea plane it corresponds to mapping the gomega axis in the plane to once around the unit circle in the sea plane. And you can also convince yourself that the left half of the plane maps to the inside of the unit circle and so that means that stable continuous time filters will always map. To stable discreet time filters which is exactly what we desire now notice in is that there's no issue of alias and what's happened is that we've replaced us by a function of v and it corresponds to mapping the. Plane to the plane in fact the whole jomega axis has mapped to once around the unit circle which obviously requires some type of non linear mapping because look the. Omega axis is infinitely along the unit circle has a finite radius and so essentially what has to happen is if you think of walking along the continuous time frequency axis and simultaneously. Walking around the unit circle if you walk at a constant rate around the unit circle and you're simultaneously walking up the jomega axis if you want to get around to pay by the time here you've gotten to. Infinity along the continuous time frequency axis you better start walking faster and faster and faster because you've got an infinite distance to cover while you just go over a finite distance here. Well what all that says really is that that's why in fact we're taking the entire why we're able to take the entire omega axis and just map it into an internet. Of our length upright now that means that there is a non linear distortion of the frequency axis if we. Take a continuous time filter and convert it to a discreet time filter with a biolinear transformation how do we account for that or for that matter when can we really use it and we can. See how to how to both take account of it and what its limitations are by recognizing the following suppose that it wanted to sign a discreet time. Air and what is going to happen is that it will be mapped to a continuous time filter or the relationship between the two frequency axes will be given by this curve so let's. Pose that the continuous time frequency response looks as I've shown here with a pass band cut off frequency and a stop band cut off frequency if this were mapped. Through the bilinear transformation to a discreet time filter when this cut off frequency would fall over here which is related through this curve and this cut off. Frequency the stop bandage would be here again reflected its these frequencies reflected through this curve so let's suppose now that what I'd like to do is design. In a discreet time filter where the discreet time filter has certain frequency specifications which is what our previous example has it has let's say a specific. Stop bandages and a specified a pass bandage and a specified stop bandage the designed procedure would then correspond to mapping those frequencies. To the corresponding continuous time frequencies designing the continuous time filter to meet the specifications based on those critical frequencies. Then taking the continuous time design and mapping it back to a discreet time filter through the bilinear transformation right now what we want to do is. Again map a butterworth filter continues time butterworth filter to a digital filter in such a way that the digital filter approximately meets the specifications that we had before and let me just remind you of where. Were the critical frequencies were at zero point to pay and zero point three pi and what we had asked for is that the frequency response be down by. No more than one would be up to point to pay and down by at least fifteen d be at point three p so we want to to sign the standards. Time filter as we did before with impulse and variance we now want to do it with a bilinear transformation applied to an appropriate butterworth design to as well so. Oh let's see what kind of specifications we have we know that the frequency the critical frequencies are mapped through this curve or this equation and I indicate it again that. This permanent capital it is arbitrary in the designed procedure that may seem confusing initially but there's some further discussion of it in the book and it's true and important to sort out. So we're going to pick capital is equal to unity and that means then that the corresponding critical frequencies of the continuous time filter are at. Twice the target of zero point to pay over two and twice the target of zero point three of over two so that means then that the specifications on our count. As time filter are given by this essentially pass banan stop bandage is warped through that non linear curve this non linear curve and I'm using capital go here to. Debate the system function for the resulting continuous time filter and so now we could think of designing a butterworth filter that let's say exactly meet. These specifications well if you do that what you'll find is that you get exact equality here if you pick capital on. Equal to five points three and again we have the issue that if we want to meet or exceed the specifications we can't make the filter over lower we have to make it higher and. We would make it instead of five point three we would make the filter order equal to six and now again we have several options and trade as before with impulse and variance we essentially. Decided to meet the pass band specifications and exceed the stop band specifications to provide some margin for aliusing here we don't have any aliusing and. We can trade things off any way we like the way that I've chosen to do it is to exactly meet the stop and cut off and exceed the pass band specifications. And the result of doing that is to choose a filter order capital is equal to six and the perimeter omegus of see in the butterworth filter is given by zero point seven. It to two right so now we have the parameters for the continuous time butterworth filter which when. Mapped to the discreet time filter through the bilinear transformation will exceed all requirements in the pass band and just just meet the stop band cut off and so now. To complete the designed procedure and given the perimeter of the butterworth filter we can draw our appropriate circle in the plane which happens to be the. Circle as before but with a different radius and then associate poles on this circle with public of s and b of minus s in particular take the ones in the left half of the s. Plain same ones we had before except we have a different value for images of see and those that represent public of us so we can now determine public of s. And once we have the transfer function be of us we then map that to a discreet time filter by mapping through the plan transformation. And that this is the designed procedure which we would follow for this example very well let's just see what the result looks like when we're doing here I show again. And on both a linear magnitude scale and on a logarhythmic or d b scale the frequency response of the resulting filter and recall that the specifications were that at point to. Of we should be down by no more than one d be and clearly we've exceeded that considerably and at point three of we should be a down by at least fifteen d public and we chose the design so that we would. Actually meet that edge so we've met this point and exceeded this point and this is our design now let's just compare this with the impulse and variant design that we saw. A few minutes ago the impulse and variant design is what I indicate where the bilinear transformation design is now overlaid on. Of it it's hard to see much difference on a linear magnitude scale but let's look on a logarhythmic scale and this one that I'm lifting is the big linear transformation. And this is impulse and variance and notice in fact something very interesting which is that